# Logistic-and-Linguistic-Inquiry-of-Socialable-Data
Natural Language Processing project
Topic: Extraction of Actionable Intelligence from Social Media

Natural Language Processing (NLP) focuses on processing and analysing natural language data. The main objective is to make machine learning as intelligent as a human being in understanding the language. In our project, we focus on analysing texts and data from social media applications such as Twitter and Facebook and create a surveillance program that checks for actionable assertions, harmful or objectionable messages against government or private companies and researching the trending products. Hence, its 2 major applications would be: Security and Business Augmentation. Security by pre-determining potential threats, creating social heat maps and analysing demographics for surveillance. Business augmentation by analysing the product trends, inspecting the product popularity in the users and influencing the target audience by pushing ads.
Data set to be used is Twitter and Facebook APIs, based on the tweets, re-tweets, pins, follows, likes. Python and its various open-sourced libraries will be our primary programming language.
Seeing from an NLP aspect, it is a method of Analysing the text in a manner that we could find out the number of Words, I- Words, Sentiment of the author, keywords and terms. Linguistic Inquiry and Word Count (LIWC2015) is a simple software tool that merely counts words through a lightweight processor. To get a sense of its capabilities, it helps to review the contents of its main built-in dictionary, which includes summary dimensions of the ingested text, punctuation marks, function words, affect terms (including sentiment analysis), social terms, cognitive process terms, perceptual processes, biological processes, human drives, time orientation, relativity, personal concerns, and informal language. This Software will help us analyse the data and divide it into different sets. Such sets will then be analysed further based on keywords, sentiment and overall purpose of the data.
Dividing this data into two different group gives us - Surveillance data and Potential Data.
▪ Surveillance data consists of a document containing Negative Sentiments and keyword which have offensive meaning that could trigger a large audience. If this is so, we will send this data from further analysis to figure out potential threats from this and prevent them.
▪ If this data is written for a Review of a product, we will use this for the Refinement and bug fixes in the product.
▪ Potential data: This data generally Consists of Documents containing Positive Sentiment and Keyword that mean good for the Company they are Writing for; this data can further be used to check if the Review has some good points about the product. These points can then be used to make new range of products, increasing the chances of the public liking them.
